All right we've done a lot of work with Jay equerry now but we haven't had a big challenge yet so we're
going to have that in the next video where we'll be building a form validation system which checks whether
the user has entered a valid email address for example whether the password is complicated enough and
whether the various other fields in the form have met the standards that we need.
That's a really useful thing to be able to do for our Sign-Up forms or any form really where we need
the data to be in a certain format in order to use it in our system.
So to do form validation we need to learn another topic which like Ajax is something that a lot of people
find a bit mysterious and confusing but it's really not.
Once you get to grips with it and that is regular expressions to regular expressions are really just
a way to check the format or the content of a string.
So we could check that it has a number in it for example or that it looks like a date or that it's a
password with a certain level of complexity or an email address or anything else.
So let's get started.
First off I'm going to move back to my local version of Jake reread I Tim El and it just makes things
a little bit faster.
And projects will work fine on your local machine.
OK.
So let's get rid of the content because we're working on a query for the moment.
So how does this work.
Well first off we define our regular expression or our rejects and usually it's defined with slashes.
So if for example I wanted to check for the word is in another string then I would put it between two
slashes like that.
And that tells javascript in this case actually there's nothing very specific about that line that this
is a regexp that we can then use to match against some other string So let's then create our string.
I'm going to optimistically right rejects is great.
You might not believe it yet but you will very soon.
And then what I need to do if I want to match these up is I use the query match function.
And again this is something that you can do with javascript but it's a lot easier to do with Jake rary.
So let's create our results.
That's just in the variable.
And to get that we start off with a string and then we apply the match function to it and the match
function takes one parameter or variable and that's the rejects.
So the expression.
So what this means is match the string rejects is great according to the regexp variable.
Slash is slash.
What it means in English is does the word is appear in the string rejects is great.
We obviously know the answer is yes but it's nice to know that our computer can work it out as well.
So let's have a look.
It's so it doesn't return quite true or false.
It returns what it finds.
And that is is it searches for is inside a string and it finds it.
So it returns it if we add a couple of letters on the end there.
So it's no longer part of our string and it returns no.
So that means that this regex is not matched with this string.
We can do a little bit more.
In fact we knew a lot more but I'm just going to show you a couple of extra things here.
If we search with a capital G by default that will return no because capital G REIT does not feature
in this string.
But if we wanted to do a case insensitive search we would just pop an eye flag at the end there.
So after the second slash and that will then do a case insensitive search which will return great.
And of course if we had we could put capital in a capital T for some reason then that would still match
but it would return G R E A T.
So it would return exactly what's in the string.
Finally we can also look for things that appear in the
string more than once.
So the letter E for example if we just run it as it is then it will return a single A.
So it will say yes he is present in the string but we might want to know about every time that he appears
in the string or at least how many times it does.
And if we want to do that we use the slash G for global.
So the global flag.
And that will then return every instance of this rejects in the string.
Take a look.
There we go.
That's essentially a little array of E's.
Every time we got a match between our string and our rejects.
So that's the basics of it rejects is extremely powerful and there's a lot more settings.
We've gone through that but we'll cover many more of those.
Now Jay queery challenge in the next video.
Are we making a form validation system.